Since my dedication and baptism,
I have been serving in a territory
where our work is under ban.
When I was serving
in the full-time ministry,
I was assigned
as a special pioneer to the territory
where my future husband had been serving.
Then we got married,
and now we are sharing
in this special avenue of service together.
We are persecuted, put on probation,
and confronted by government officials.
In difficult times,
Jehovah personally assures me
with the words from Isaiah:
“I will fortify you, yes, I will help you.”
The last time
government officials came to our place,
they took us to their office for questioning.
They said they had no choice,
and we went in their car.
At that moment, I felt that Jehovah
was not only giving me
his holy spirit and wisdom
but also giving me
the physical strength to go.
I was so thankful to him.
Indeed, on that day when
we were taken in the car,
I prayed to Jehovah,
“Please help us
to be able to give a witness about you.”
A government official even said these words:
“It’s very interesting for us to talk with you.
“When we talk with people of other faiths,
“we never have our questions fully answered.
“But you know
the correct answers to our questions
and are capable of giving them.”
Isaiah 31:5 is a big help
because there Jehovah is described
as being “like swooping birds.”
After all, Jehovah is above me.
In this verse he also
promises that he will defend and save.
Encounters with government officials
and discussions with them
have brought many blessings for our brothers,
for our Bible students, and for us.
But it has been
a good opportunity for policemen too,
because there are sincere ones
among them who have a lot of questions.
We have had good discussions,
and I began to view them as my return visits.
We have shared with our students
how Jehovah is giving us strength,
and how he is blessing us
when we are talking with government officials.
As a result,
they are able to stay strong in the faith.
After meeting with the police,
we never sit at home trembling in fear.
On the contrary, we try to share
in field service with our brothers and sisters
even more because it’s also
an encouragement for them.
We spend a lot of time sharing with them
how Jehovah glorifies his name.
In certain situations,
through his words in the Psalms,
Jehovah shows me that he is on my side,
and I fully believe it.
Jehovah indeed is on my side,
and he has shown me
that people can do nothing to me.
We participated in the construction
when the Kingdom Hall was
built the first time.
Everything was finished very nicely.
Then we were involved in the construction
of the same Kingdom Hall the second time.
And when we were close
to the end of the construction
and came to the construction site
and saw everything burned-out and ruined,
we cried.
So almost every day,
unfriendly neighbors stopped us
and continued to say to us: “Stop your work.
Go out from our village.”
In those moments,
I just used to pray silently to Jehovah.
I was a bit afraid since I still had
fresh in my mind all the memories,
the difficulties,
and how the neighbors threw stones at us.
But the words
in Isaiah 41:10 gave me strength:
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
I will fortify you, . . .
I will really hold on to you with my right hand.”
Reading these words
always gave us power
to continue in our service.
I reflected on the words in Nehemiah 2:17:
“Come, let us rebuild the walls of Jerusalem,
so that this disgrace will not continue.”
Jehovah wants this Kingdom Hall to be.
This is important to the people there,
so I wanted the praise for Jehovah, again.
It was more than clear
that Jehovah was backing us.
We finished construction of that same
Kingdom Hall for the third time
from the floor to the roof in 45 days.
From a human standpoint,
this was not possible.
We worked closely
with many elders and ministerial servants.
It was an enjoyable experience.
We felt Jehovah’s hand.
Jehovah strengthened our spirit.
He encouraged us, and we felt it.
We cannot be silent;
we have to praise God.
We see him.
We know him.
Jehovah poured out his holy spirit,
and we gained confidence that Jehovah
is always near and ready to help.
He is like a loving Father
holding us by our hands.
Endurance helped us to receive
all the blessings we are experiencing now.
I am very grateful to Jehovah God
for all these blessings.
I realize more fully that
for his name,
Jehovah becomes anything he wants.